fire ants share the Sharks passion for
electricity introduced into America from
Brazil in the 1930s the ants soon
acquired a strange interest in
technology
[Music]
perhaps they mistake electricity for the
body fields of their prey no one really
knows what is known is the chaos caused
by the ants by severing wires and
creating short circuits fire ants are
the ultimate gremlins and the machine in
homes they seek the electromagnetic
waves given off by domestic appliances a
microwave oven makes an irresistible
target
electrical attraction lures the ants
into this potential hot spot
but Tecna ants are not easily destroyed
fire ants are so small most of the
microwave energy misses them they also
sense cooler zones if hot spots build up
unlike food they can quickly move away
fire ants are aptly named their stings
burned every year across the southern
states fire ants caused millions of
dollars worth of damage
as each queen ant can spawn a colony of
30,000 individuals this alien invasion
has proved impossible to repel because
of concerns about possible risks from
electromagnetic forces homes are now
rarely built under high-voltage power
lines
though strangely enough plants appear to
thrive here
they find electromagnetic fields
stimulating
changes to electric charges in plants
effect hormones controlling growth
perhaps these forces help the process
electricity is not always so appreciated
bees will desert hives placed under
powerlines the explanation may lie in
the bees only electric charge generated
by friction with the air as it flies the
bees make good use of this static charge
pollen is positively charged and is
attracted to the negatively charged B
even while it's flying
for a busy bee this remote pickup saves
time
the prize is stored in a pollen sack
these probably swarm away from power
lines because of interference with the
bees static charges any electric field
disturbs them
the bees react aggressively to
electricity as though under threat guard
bees defend the colony at all cost
they target any source of electricity
you